# Starting the Application

This is the front-end layer repository of the Personal Life Manager application. The application is designed following a schema like the MVC. The back-end API and database parts can be setup independently from the front-end layer, and those parts are [available in this link](https://github.com/gabogomes/plm-api).

To start the application, make sure you nave `npm`, `yarn` or `pnpm` installed. Also make sure your Node version is at least 20. You can use `nvm` to setup your Node version management and switch among different versions. For instance, use `nvm use 20` to use a Node version compatible with this front-end Next App.

After cloning the repository locally, use npm install to setup your node_modules folder containing all the libraries needed for the application. Then, use `npm run dev` to start the application at `localhost:3000`. To use the front-end application correctly, that is, including the Clerk authentication mechanism, please contact Gabriel Gomes at aulasconsultorias@gmail.com, and ask for the values to put in the variables inside a file you should create, named .env.local, with the same structure as in .env.local.example. The values you will need are for `NEXT_PUBLIC_CLERK_PUBLISHABLE_KEY` and `CLERK_SECRET_KEY`. Alternatively, you can just create a new Application Registration in the [Clerk portal](https://clerk.com/) using your e-mail account, and substitute the values in .env.local by the values that Clerk will generate for you after registering your application.